README.md, before:

aws-cost-saver
=======================

A tiny CLI tool to help save costs in development environments when you're asleep and don't need them!

* [Usage](#usage)
* [Tricks](#tricks)
  * [shutdown-ec2-instances](#-shutdown-ec2-instances)
  * [stop-fargate-ecs-services](#-stop-fargate-ecs-services)
  * [stop-rds-database-instances](#-stop-rds-database-instances)
  * [decrease-dynamodb-provisioned-rcu-wcu](#-decrease-dynamodb-provisioned-rcu-wcu)
  * [remove-nat-gateways](#-remove-nat-gateways)

### Disclaimer
This utility is meant for **development** environments only where stopping and removing resources is not risky.

# Usage
```sh-session
$ npm install -g aws-cost-saver
$ aws-cost-saver conserve --dry-run
```
## Commands
Under the hood [aws-sdk](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-js) is used, therefore AWS Credentials are read in this order:
1. From `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_REGION` environment variables.
2. From shared ini file (i.e. `~/.aws/credentials`)

### Conserve

This command uses [various tricks](#tricks) to conserve as much money as possible. To be able to [restore](#restore), this command will create a `state-file`.

```
USAGE
  $ aws-cost-saver conserve [-d|--dry-run] [-s|--state-file aws-cost-saver.json] ...

OPTIONS
  -d, --dry-run                          Only print actions and write state-file of current resources.
  -n, --no-state-file                    Ignore saving current state, useful when want to only conserve as much money as possible.
  -s, --state-file state-file.json       [default: aws-cost-saver.json] Where to keep original state of stopped/decreased resources to restore later.
  -u, --use-trick trick-machine-name     Enables an individual trick. Useful for tricks that are disabled by default.
  -i, --ignore-trick trick-machine-name  Disables an individual trick. Useful when you do not like to use a specific trick.
  --no-default-tricks                    Disables all default tricks. Useful alongside --use-trick to enable only specific set of tricks.
  -r, --region eu-central-1              [default: eu-central-1] AWS Region to converse resources in
  -p, --profile my-aws-profile           [default: default] AWS Profile to use from ~/.aws/config
  -h, --help                             Show CLI help
```

<p align="center">
  <img width="460" src="./assets/example-screenshot.png" />
</p>

### Restore

To restore AWS resources stopped or removed by the [conserve](#conserve) command.

```
USAGE
  $ aws-cost-saver restore [-d|--dry-run] [-s|--state-file aws-cost-saver.json] ...

OPTIONS
  -d, --dry-run          Only list actions and do not actually execute them.
  -s, --state-file       [default: aws-cost-saver.json] Path to load previous state of your AWS resources from.
  -r, --region           [default: eu-central-1] AWS region to restore resoruces in.
  -p, --profile          [default: default] AWS profile to lookup from ~/.aws/config
  -h, --help             Show CLI help.
```

# Tricks
Here is a list of tricks aws-cost-saver uses to reduce AWS costs when you don't need them.

### # shutdown-ec2-instances
Stopping running EC2 instances will save compute-hour. This trick will keep track of stopped EC2 instances in the state-file and start them again on restore.

### # stop-fargate-ecs-services
Stopping AWS Fargate ECS services (i.e. tasks) will save compute-hour. This trick will keep track of stopped Fargate ECS services in the state-file and start them again on restore.

### # stop-rds-database-instances
Stopping RDS databases will save underlying EC2 instance costs. This trick will keep track of stopped databases in the state-file and start them again on restore.

### # decrease-dynamodb-provisioned-rcu-wcu
Provisioned RCU and WCU on DynamoDB tables costs hourly. This trick will decrease them to minimum value (i.e. 1). Original values will be stored in state-file to be restored later.

### # remove-nat-gateways
NAT Gateways are charged hourly. This trick will remove NAT Gateways while you don't use your services, and creates them again on "restore" command.

* Removing NAT Gateways stops instances access to internet.
* This trick is currently **disabled by default** because removing/recreating NAT gateway will change the ID therefore IaC such as terraform will be confused. Use `--use-trick` flag to explicitly enable it:
```sh
$ aws-cost-saver conserve --use-trick remove-nat-gateways
```

### # TODO
If you know any other tricks to save some money feel free to create a Pull Request or raise an issue.

# Alternatives
There are various ways to save money on AWS that need per-case judgement and it'll be hard to generalize into aws-cost-saver, but here is a list of useful resources:
* [Google Search: "aws cost saving"](https://lmgtfy.com/?q=aws+cost+saving)
* [Use Amazon EC2 Spot Instances to reduce EC2 costs for background and non-critical services](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7q5AeoKsGJw)
* [Delete idle LBs, Use private subnets, Use auto-scalers, etc.](https://medium.com/@george_51059/reduce-aws-costs-74ef79f4f348)

# License
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)  

AWS Cost Saver is licensed under MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.

Commit message:

Add snapshot-and-remove-elasticache-clusters trick (#12)
* Add snapshot-and-remove-elasticache-clusters trick

* Update README and CHANGELOG

README.md, after:

aws-cost-saver
=======================

A tiny CLI tool to help save costs in development environments when you're asleep and don't need them!

* [Usage](#usage)
* [Tricks](#tricks)
  * [shutdown-ec2-instances](#-shutdown-ec2-instances)
  * [stop-fargate-ecs-services](#-stop-fargate-ecs-services)
  * [stop-rds-database-instances](#-stop-rds-database-instances)
  * [decrease-dynamodb-provisioned-rcu-wcu](#-decrease-dynamodb-provisioned-rcu-wcu)
  * [remove-nat-gateways](#-remove-nat-gateways)
  * [snapshot-and-remove-elasticache-clusters](#-snapshot-and-remove-elasticache-clusters)

### Disclaimer
This utility is meant for **development** environments only where stopping and removing resources is not risky.

# Usage
```sh-session
$ npm install -g aws-cost-saver
$ aws-cost-saver conserve --dry-run
```
## Commands
Under the hood [aws-sdk](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-js) is used, therefore AWS Credentials are read in this order:
1. From `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_REGION` environment variables.
2. From shared ini file (i.e. `~/.aws/credentials`)

### Conserve

This command uses [various tricks](#tricks) to conserve as much money as possible. To be able to [restore](#restore), this command will create a `state-file`.

```
USAGE
  $ aws-cost-saver conserve [-d|--dry-run] [-s|--state-file aws-cost-saver.json] ...

OPTIONS
  -d, --dry-run                          Only print actions and write state-file of current resources.
  -n, --no-state-file                    Ignore saving current state, useful when want to only conserve as much money as possible.
  -s, --state-file state-file.json       [default: aws-cost-saver.json] Where to keep original state of stopped/decreased resources to restore later.
  -u, --use-trick trick-machine-name     Enables an individual trick. Useful for tricks that are disabled by default. Can be used multiple times.
  -i, --ignore-trick trick-machine-name  Disables an individual trick. Useful when you do not like to use a specific trick. Can be used multiple times.
  --no-default-tricks                    Disables all default tricks. Useful alongside --use-trick to enable only specific set of tricks.
  -r, --region eu-central-1              [default: eu-central-1] AWS Region to converse resources in
  -p, --profile my-aws-profile           [default: default] AWS Profile to use from ~/.aws/config
  -h, --help                             Show CLI help
```

<p align="center">
  <img width="460" src="./assets/example-screenshot.png" />
</p>

### Restore

To restore AWS resources stopped or removed by the [conserve](#conserve) command.

```
USAGE
  $ aws-cost-saver restore [-d|--dry-run] [-s|--state-file aws-cost-saver.json] ...

OPTIONS
  -d, --dry-run          Only list actions and do not actually execute them.
  -s, --state-file       [default: aws-cost-saver.json] Path to load previous state of your AWS resources from.
  -r, --region           [default: eu-central-1] AWS region to restore resoruces in.
  -p, --profile          [default: default] AWS profile to lookup from ~/.aws/config
  -h, --help             Show CLI help.
```

# Tricks
Here is a list of tricks aws-cost-saver uses to reduce AWS costs when you don't need them.

### # shutdown-ec2-instances
Stopping running EC2 instances will save compute-hour. This trick will keep track of stopped EC2 instances in the state-file and start them again on restore.

### # stop-fargate-ecs-services
Stopping AWS Fargate ECS services (i.e. tasks) will save compute-hour. This trick will keep track of stopped Fargate ECS services in the state-file and start them again on restore.

### # stop-rds-database-instances
Stopping RDS databases will save underlying EC2 instance costs. This trick will keep track of stopped databases in the state-file and start them again on restore.

### # decrease-dynamodb-provisioned-rcu-wcu
Provisioned RCU and WCU on DynamoDB tables costs hourly. This trick will decrease them to minimum value (i.e. 1). Original values will be stored in state-file to be restored later.

### # remove-nat-gateways
NAT Gateways are charged hourly. This trick will remove NAT Gateways while you don't use your services, and creates them again on "restore" command.

* Removing NAT Gateways stops instances access to internet.
* This trick is currently **disabled by default** because removing/recreating NAT gateway will change the ID therefore IaC such as terraform will be confused. Use `--use-trick` flag to explicitly enable it:
```sh
$ aws-cost-saver conserve --use-trick remove-nat-gateways
```

### # snapshot-and-remove-elasticache-clusters
ElastiCache clusters cost hourly but unfortunately it's not possible to stop them like an EC2 instance. To save costs this trick will take a snapshot of current cluster (preserving data, config and cluster ID) and delete it. To restore it'll create a new cluster based on snapshot taken. 

* Due to AWS limitation, backup and restore is supported only for clusters running on Redis.
* This trick is currently **disabled by default** to be tested by early users. Use `--use-trick` flag to explicitly enable it:
```sh
$ aws-cost-saver conserve --use-trick snapshot-remove-elasticache-redis
```

### # TODO
If you know any other tricks to save some money feel free to create a Pull Request or raise an issue.

# Alternatives
There are various ways to save money on AWS that need per-case judgement and it'll be hard to generalize into aws-cost-saver, but here is a list of useful resources:
* [Google Search: "aws cost saving"](https://lmgtfy.com/?q=aws+cost+saving)
* [Use Amazon EC2 Spot Instances to reduce EC2 costs for background and non-critical services](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7q5AeoKsGJw)
* [Delete idle LBs, Use private subnets, Use auto-scalers, etc.](https://medium.com/@george_51059/reduce-aws-costs-74ef79f4f348)

# License
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)  

AWS Cost Saver is licensed under MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.
